He started on his usual route, realizing by the arboretum, his halfway mark, that this was the first satisfying jog he'd had in days, maybe months.

Rabbits, chipmunks, white dogwood trees, all alive with him, with the
earnest green energy of the place.

The landscape whirred past.  The arboretum, its resodding abandoned temporarily in progress, remained half green, half yellow.  The air was suddenly thick, stagnant with the humid scent of fresh grass and decaying mulch.  Time started to slow a little as he continued at the same clip.  He stopped, he promised himself just for a moment, to tie his shoes.  A tired butterfly rested on a limestone bench, crawling languidly over a grateful inscription [Nice.] to its stolidly
midwestern builders.  The grand IMU hunkered like a gothic castle, though incongruously warted from the inside with a low rent bowling alley and Burger King, and a bookstore that sold nothing but IU campuswear and e-readers.  [Edited out churlish thought: too much telling]  It was majestic from the outside, though, and damnit, today he was outside.  Something had to burn to keep the lights on.  Sweat trickling down his back, he picked up his game.

He slowed a bit as he turned left onto Kirkwood, guiltily taking in the aroma of chicken wings at Buffalouie's.  Knew he would be here later.  He took his heart rate without stopping completely. Slowing down, that was good.  He was getting somewhere with this, finally.  

Back onto campus again, he took a shortcut through the rough footpaths of semi-wild bright green woods decimated by so many tornadoes over the years, each time painstakingly, slowly and stubbornly reborn.  Over the wooden foot bridge, past the hulking Arts Center, a slightly garish neogothic late addition to the school that tried to fit in with the old majestic buildings.  [This might not be true, but I like it.  We could make the setting a fictional campus.]  Thin desis draped in IU t-shirts milled effortlessly around him like fireflies.  Jesus, he was in the midst of Hogwarts.

Test line.

Finger still on his neck, he observed his ticker ramping up as he picked up his pace a bit, headed toward the thick of campus.  The
Kinsey Institute -- still a chamber of delights after all these years?  Probably a museum now.  [Nice!  Foreshadows the boner detail.]  [So much for fictionalizing the setting, though. ;)]

He stopped to help a jolly Rich Warren reading hubby RA move his eager
family out of this sleepy college town and back to Indianapolis, waving away the outstretched $20 bill.  Joking about his nephew Rayshawn's seemingly limitless energy as they tetrised the U-haul, the guy
wizened him cheerfully to what he had to look forward to, getting older.  Joints, metabolism, boner quota, all downhill from here.

He grinned, helping them, but inside him, something slumped, suddenly weary.  His heart rate was down today, he told himself.  He could put his finger in the pike, hold back the onslaught a little longer.  The U-haul was packed, they made their sweaty salutations, the family Indianapolis bound.  He headed home steadily, didn't take his pulse again.  Hope it stays cool for a while, he thought.  Won't be able to jog like this, once it really starts to bake.

